# Axiom data portal help documentation

This GitHub repository is where the help documentation for data portals developed by [Axiom Data Science](https://www.axiomdatascience.com) (Axiom) lives. Contributions to this documentation are welcome via pull requests. These instructions describe how the repository is structured and how partners can contribute custom content for their data portal.

## Common terms

*Data portal*: a web-based application for exploring, visualizing, and interacting with environmental data. A data portal is composed of a **Data Catalog** (a search page with a list of available datasets) and a **Data Map** (a map-based page with data displayed spatially).

*Brand*: a partner organization with their own version of the data portal. The basic data portal technology is shared among Axiom's partners, but each data portal has unique features and "branding" (e.g., logos, theme colors) specific to its partner organization.

## Introduction

The data portal help documentation is set up as a website, which you can think of as a bunch of HTML files. Those HTML files are generated by [Sphinx](www.sphinx-doc.org), which is a Python-based tool that turns plain-text files into HTML files.

In order for Sphinx to work its magic, those plain-text files have to be formatted according to certain conventions. In this case the convention is something called [reStructuredText](http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/rest.html) (RST). Files formatted according to the RST conventions have the extention ".rst" (`index.rst`, for example).

As Sphinx is turning those RST files into HTML, it applies cascading style sheets (CSS) to make them look nice. For the data portal help docs, we've chosen the familiar [Read the Docs](https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) for our CSS. Sphinx also adds nice touches like a search bar, a navigation pane, and your brand's logo.

## How this repository is organized

The data portal help docs repository is organized into 3 directories, which you can think of as a folder:

1. The main folder, where 2 types of files live:
	1. RST files, where our primary content lives
	1. Admin type files, such as ``conf.py`` and ``make.bat``, which we can safely ignore
1. The ``partner_content`` folder, where a subdirectory for each brand's special content lives (in addition to a ``global`` folder). Each partner's folder contains the following:
	1. An ``images`` folder for custom screenshots and GIFs
	1. A ``static`` folder for custom CSS
	1. A ``config.yml`` file for brand-specific details (e.g., data portal title, partner logo file name)
	1. A ``substitutions.txt`` file for defining short-cut names for brand-specific images
1. The ``custom`` folder, where a global CSS file lives that we don't have to worry about

## How to add content for your data portal's brand

This section is still under development.

### How to add a new page

This section is still under development.

### How to edit an existing page

This section is still under development.

### How to add a new image

This section is still under development.

### How to replace an existing image

This section is still under development.
